# Other error messages

In addition to error messages generated by the DITA Open Toolkit, you might also encounter error messages generated by Java or other tools.

## Out of Memory error

In some cases, you might receive a message stating the build has failed due to an Out of Memory error. Try the following approaches to resolve the problem:

1.  Increase the memory available to Java; see [Increasing Java memory allocation](increasing-the-jvm.md).
2.  Reduce memory consumption by setting the generate-debug-attributes option to `false`. This option is set in the lib/configuration.properties file. This will disable debug attribute generation \(used to trace DITA-OT error messages back to source files\) and will reduce memory consumption.
3.  Set `dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet` Ant property to `true`. This will allow the XSLT processor to release memory when converting multiple files.
4.  Run the transformation again.

## java.io.IOException: Can't store Document

After running a JavaHelp transformation, you may receive a java.io.IOException: Can't store Document message.

This problem occurs when HTML files unrelated to the current transformation are found in the output directory. Delete the content of the output directory and run the transformation again.

## Stack Overflow error

If you receive an error about a stack memory overflow, increase the JVM and run the transformation again. See [Increasing Java memory allocation](increasing-the-jvm.md).

**Parent topic:** [Error messages and troubleshooting](../user-guide/troubleshooting-overview.md)

