# Error messages and troubleshooting

This section contains information about problems that you might encounter and how to resolve them.

-   **[DITA-OT error messages](../user-guide/DITA-messages.md)**  
The error messages generated by the DITA Open Toolkit contain a message ID, severity information, and message text. This topic lists each error message generated by the toolkit and provides additional information that might be helpful in understanding and resolving the error condition.
-   **[Other error messages](../user-guide/other-errors.md)**  
In addition to error messages generated by the DITA Open Toolkit, you might also encounter error messages generated by Java or other tools.
-   **[Log files](../user-guide/log-files.md)**  
When you run the DITA-OT, key information is logged on the screen. This information can also be written to a log file. If you encounter a problem, you can analyze this information to determine the source of the problem and then take action to resolve it.
-   **[Accessing help for the dita command](../user-guide/dita-command-help.md)**  
You can access a list of supported parameters for the dita command by issuing the -help parameter.
-   **[Checking the DITA-OT version](../user-guide/determining-version-of-ditaot.md)**  
You can determine the version of the DITA Open Toolkit from a command prompt.
-   **[Enabling debug mode](../user-guide/enabling-debug-mode.md)**  
When the debug mode is enabled, additional diagnostic information is written to the log file. This information, which includes environment variables and stack trace data, can help you determine the root cause of a problem.
-   **[Increasing Java memory allocation](../user-guide/increasing-the-jvm.md)**  
If you are working with large documents with extensive metadata or key references, you will need to increase the memory allocation for the Java process. You can do this from the command-line prompt for a specific session, or you can increase the value of the ANT\_OPTS environment variable.
-   **[Reducing processing time](../user-guide/reducing-processing-time.md)**  
Several configuration changes can significantly reduce DITA-OT processing time.

**Parent topic:** [DITA Open Toolkit User Guide](../user-guide/index.md)

