# HTML-based processing modules

The DITA-OT ships with several varieties of HTML output, each of which follows roughly the same path through the processing pipeline. All HTML-based transformation begin with the same call to the pre-processing module, after which they generate HTML files and then branch to create the transformation-specific navigation files.

-   **[Common HTML-based processing](../dev_ref/XhtmlCommon.md)**  
After the pre-processing operation runs, HTML-based builds each run a common series of Ant targets to generate HTML file. Navigation may be created before or after this set of common routines.
-   **[XHTML processing](../dev_ref/XhtmlDefault.md)**  
After the XHTML files are generated by the common routine, the `dita.map.xhtml` target is called by the xhtml transformation. This target generates a TOC file called index.html, which can be loaded into a frameset.
-   **[HTML5 processing](../dev_ref/html5.md)**  
After the HTML5 files are generated by the common routine, the `dita.map.xhtml` target is called by the html5 transformation. This target generates a TOC file called index.html, which can be loaded into a frameset.
-   **[Eclipse help processing](../dev_ref/XhtmlEclipse.md)**  
The eclipsehelp transformation generates XHTML-based output and files that are needed to create an Eclipse Help system plug-in. Once the normal XHTML process has run, the `dita.map.eclipse` target is used to create a set of control files and navigation files.
-   **[TocJS processing](../dev_ref/XhtmlTocjs.md)**  
The tocjs transformation was originally created as a plug-in that distributed outside of the toolkit, but it now ships bundled in the default packages. This HTML5-based output type creates a JavaScript based frameset with TOC entries that expand and collapse.
-   **[HTML Help processing](../dev_ref/XhtmlCHM.md)**  
The htmlhelp transformation created HTML Help control files. If the build runs on a system that has the HTML Help compiler installed, the control files are compiled into a CHM file.
-   **[JavaHelp processing](../dev_ref/XhtmlJavahelp.md)**  
The javahelp transformation runs several additional Ant targets after the XHTML processing is completed in order to create control files for the JavaHelp output.

**Parent topic:** [Architecture of the DITA Open Toolkit](../dev_ref/DITA-OTArchitecture.md)

